Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. Formal language that us used to create programs




What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. JDK is composed of
- javac - compiles java file to class files
- javadoc - used to create documentation
- javap - show the implementation of a class and its methods
- jdb - helps debug the codes
- JRE
    --Class loader - loads the class to JVM
    --JVM
        ---Bytecode verifier - points to memory where the class has been loaded
        ---garbage collector - releases objects and variables that are no longer needed
        ---security manager - imposes restrictions
        ---Execution engine(JIT) - converts byte code to machine language
What is IDE?
A.  IDE sntand for integrated development environment. Is is a software that allows programmers to code and compile and test software applications
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.  NetBeans, Eclipse, and Intellij
Explain the entire java life cycle.
A.  The java applications are codes and saved as .java files. The javac converts the .java to .class files.
    The class files are loaded to jvm by the class loader and saves the byte code to the method area.(Only one method area per JVM and it's a shared resource)
    in the heap objects are created for each .class by the JVM
    temperory variables are stored in the stack
    PC register keeps track of instruction that are to be executed
    Native method stack has acces to the runtime data area for the virtual machine.
    native method interface enables java code to call or be called by the native application which are specific to the hardware and the OS
    Garbage collector releases objects and variables that are no longer needed by the application.

what is class?
A. Class is blue print that defines the objects.
What is object?
A.  Objects are instance of class that have attributes and functions defined by the class
What is the entry point of an application?
A. The main method is the entry point of a java application
Why main is static?
A. main method is static so that JVM has can access it without having to create an instance of the class
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. Object class is the super class of all classes.
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. path is an environment variable used by the OS to find the executables. Classpath is an environment variable used by java compiler to find find the path
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Interface contains only abstract methods and final variables Abstract class contains both abstract methods and concrete methods.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. You cannot create objects of a interface or Abstract class but you can create referance variables of them. You can also create anynomous classes of them. You can implement interface and extend Abstract classes to implement the abstract methods and variables.
what is Access Specifier?
A. Access specifiers determines the accessability of class and mthods across the project. class has two levels of accessability where as methods and nested classes have four levels of accessability
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. OOP stands for Object Oriented Programming. There are 4 concepts
- Abstraction: Abstract class and interface provides abstract methods without their implementation
- Encapsulation: Hides the data manipulation with the help of private methods, variabes and inner classes
- Inheritance: enables classes to acquire the features of other classes without the need of recreating them
- Polymorphism: Methods can be of various forms that have different implementations. There are two form of polymorphism:
    -- Overloading: Same method or constructor within the same class with different parameters or different number of parameters
    -- Overriding: Same method with the same parameter but different implementation between parent and child classes.
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A.  A package is a namespace that organizes a set of related classes and interfaces. java.lang package is imported by default.
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A.  Application Programming Interface is a set of functions and procedures allowing the creation of applications that access the features or data of an operating system, application, or other service.. Google Sheet API, JDBC API, Selenium API
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. Java only supports single-line multi-level inheritance
What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. methods and constructor can be over loaded within the same class. The same methods or constructor is recreated with different parameters
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. exceptions are error that prevent application for running smoothly. exceptions can be either compile time or run time. compiletime excpetins must be resolved while writing the code where as runtime exceptions can be handeled using try-catch block or throws
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. static keyword allows the access of methods and variables without the creation of instance of the class.
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. final variables and methods prevents the overriding of the methods and update of variables. functions and values once set are final and unchangable
What is final, finally and finalize?
A. final prevents changes to mathods and variables. finally block always runs at the end of a try catch block regardless of the success or failure of the try block. finalize is used to perform cleanup operation before garbage collection
What is a constructor ?
A.  Constructor is a block of code that initialize the object
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. Yes a class an have multiple overloaded constructors.
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. The default constructor is called if no constructor is declared.
What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. this is a referance variable that refers to the current object.
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. super is a referance variable that refers to the parent class object.
What is JVM stand for ?
A. Java Virtual Machine
Is JVM platform independent?
A.  Java Virtual Machine is platform independent
What version of java are you using?
A. java 8
What is JAR stand for ?
A Java Archive
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. JDK contians JVM which is part of JRE
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. JVM contains JRE
What is compile time and run time?
A. Compile time : time when the jave file is compiled to class. Runtime: time when the class file is run on JVM
What is heap?
A.  Heap is part of the JVM memory where objects are created.
How java manage it's memory?
A. Java manages memory with the help of garbage collector that releases any objects and variables that are no longer needed
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuider are mutable classes. StringBuffer is thread safe and synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not.
StringBuilder is more faster than StringBuffer. String concat + operator internally uses StringBuffer or StringBuilder class.
What is Singleton class?
A.  Singleton class is design pattern that allows the creation of only one instance of the class.
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream. Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.
when to use transient variable in java?
A. Transient variables are non static instance varibles that prevents serializations and deserialization. So if you don't want to store the value of a variable in a file you use transient variable.
Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. while loop only executes the code when the condition is true where as Do-while executed the code at least once even if the condition if false.
What is Enum?
A. Enumerates a goup of named constants in a class.
What is Iterator?
A.
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
